'ndk-gdb' Overview

I. Usage:
---------

The Android NDK r4 introduced a helper shell script named 'ndk-gdb' to
easily launch a native debugging session for your NDK-generated machine code.

The script is located at the top-level directory of the NDK, and shall
be invoked from the command-line when in your application project
directory, or any of its sub-directories. For example:

    cd $PROJECT
    $NDK/ndk-gdb

Where $NDK points to your NDK installation path. You can also create an
alias or add $NDK to your PATH to avoid typing it everytime.

IMPORTANT: Native debugging can only work if *all* these conditions are met:

    1. Your application is built with the 'ndk-build' script:

        Building with the legacy "make APP=<name>" method is not
        supported by ndk-gdb.

    2. Your application is debuggable:

        In other words, your AndroidManifest.xml has an <application>
        element that sets the android:debuggable attribute to "true"

    3. You are running your application on Android 2.2 (or higher):

        ndk-gdb will not work if you try to run your application on
        previous versions of the system. That does not mean that your
        application should target the Android 2.2. API level, just
        that the debugging session should happen on a 2.2+ device or
        emulator system image.

        IMPORTANT IMPORTANT IMPORTANT !!

            If you are using the ADT Eclipse plugin to build your
            application, make sure you're using version 0.9.7 or
            later.

            If you are using the 'ant' build tool, make sure that you
            have the latest revision of the SDK Platform components.
            The following minimal revisions are required:

                Android 1.5      r4
                Android 1.6      r3
                Android 2.1      r2
                Android 2.2      r1

            These should be available through the SDK updater.

            If these conditions are not met, the generated .apk will
            not contain required support files and native debugging
            will not be possible.

'ndk-gdb' handles many error conditions and will dump an informative error
message if it finds a problem. For example, it:

    - checks that adb is in your path.

    - checks that your application is declared debuggable in its manifest.

    - checks that, on the device, the installed application with the same
      package name is also debuggable.


By default, ndk-gdb will search for an already-running application process,
and will dump an error if it doesn't find one. You can however use the --start
or --launch=<name> option to automatically start your activity before the
debugging session.

When it succesfully attaches to your application process, ndk-gdb will give
you a normal GDB prompt, after setting up the session to properly look for
your source files and symbol/debug versions of your generated native
libraries.

You can set breakpoints with 'b <location>' and resume execution with 'c'
(for 'continue'). See the GDB manual for a list of commands.

IMPORTANT: When quitting the GDB prompt, your debugged application process
           will be stopped! This is a gdb limitation.

IMPORTANT: The GDB prompt will be preceded by a long list of error messages,
           where gdb complains that it cannot find various system libraries
           (e.g. libc.so, libstdc++.so, liblog.so, libcutils.so, etc...)

           This is normal, because there are no symbol/debug versions of
           these libraries corresponding to your target device on your
           development machine. You can safely ignore these messages.

II. Options:
------------

To see a list of options, type 'ndk-gdb --help'. Notable ones are:

  --verbose:
    Print verbose information about the native debugging session setup.
    Only needed to debug problems when you can't connect and that the
    error messages printed by ndk-gdb are not enough.

  --force:
    By default, ndk-gdb aborts if it finds that another native debugging
    session is running on the same device. Using --force will kill the
    session, and replace it with a new one. Note that the debugged program
    is *not* killed and will be stopped again.

  --start:
    By default, ndk-gdb will try to attach to an existing running instance
    of your application on the target device. You can use --start to
    explicitely launch your application before the debugging session.

    NOTE: This launches the first launchable activity listed from your
          application manifest. Use --launch=<name> to start another one.
          See --launch-list to dump the list of such activites.

  --launch=<name>:
    This is similar to --start, except that it allows you to start a specific
    activity from your application. This is only useful if your manifest
    defines several launchable activities.

  --launch-list:
    Convenience option that prints the list of all launchable activity names
    found in your application manifest. The first one will be used by --start

  --project=<path>:
    Specify application project directory. Useful if you want to launch
    the script without cd-ing to the directory before that.

  --port=<port>:
    By default, ndk-gdb will use local TCP port 5039 to communicate with
    the debugged application. By using a different port, it is possible
    to natively debug programs running on different devices/emulators
    connected to the same development machine.

  --adb=<file>:
    Specify the adb tool executable, in case it is not in your path.

  -d, -e, -s <serial>:
    These flags are similar to the ADB ones and allow you to handle the
    case where you have several devices/emulators connected to your
    development machine.

        -d:          Connect to a single physical device
        -e:          Connect to a single emulator device
        -s <serial>: Connect to a specific device or emulator
                     where <serial> is the device's name as listed
                     by the "adb devices" command.

    Alternatively, you can define the ADB_SERIAL environment variable
    to list a specific device, without the need for a specific option.

  --exec=<file>:
  -x <file>:
    After connecting to the debugged process, run the GDB initialization
    commands found in <file>. This is useful if you want to do something
    repeatedly, e.g. setting up a list of breakpoints then resuming
    execution automatically.


III. Requirements:
------------------

At the moment 'ndk-gdb' requires a Unix shell to run. This means that
Cygwin is required to run it on Windows. We hope to get rid of this
limitation in a future NDK release.

The other NDK requirements apply: e.g. GNU Make 3.81 or higher.
